# Programming for Data Analytics Project
---
Description: I will investigate a real-world phenomenon, gather data points over different variables and investigate their various relationships and their predictive ability. For this project I am investigating the predictive factors which are indicators of the presence or absence of cardiovascular disease. I will take data from this dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sulianova/cardiovascular-disease-dataset  The variables are of three types: Objective: containing factual information; Examination: results of medical examination; Subjective: information given by the patient. There are 12 input variables and 1 output variable "cardio" (has or hasn't cardiovascular disease). The 12 input variables are id, age, height, weight, gender, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, cholesterol, glucose, smoking, alcohol intake, physical activity. Age, height, weight and gender are the objective variables. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure, cholestrol, glucose are the examination features. Smoking, alcohol intake and physical activity are the subjective variables. It must be noted that subjective variables are subject to a degree of unreliability due to the dependence on trust of the answers given by the patients. 

The variables in the dataset are known factors that increase the likelyhood of developing cardiovascular disease. For example, a person who doesn't smoke or drink alcohol, but lives a sedentary lifestyle and is aged over 65 is at increased risk. But what about those who lead active lifestyles in term of physical exercise, yet smoke and or drink alcohol? Are they more likely to contract cardiovascular disease? 